We created the DIM-AgeGroup table, now we want to be able to define different categories for the
age groups that we have.
So to do this, we have to work with the information that we have in the age group table,
now what do I want to do actually?
If you look at the different age groups, you can see that we have a minimum and maximum value as this
is always a range
and I want to create a condition which always refers to that maximum value of each row.
Now for example, I want to be able to define that for each age that is equal or below four,
this should be named a baby, so this should be a new column that includes that baby name then and then
I want to do the same thing for the age from 10 to 14,
so for the 14, meaning that for each age that is below or equal to 14, this should be a child for instance
and the first condition,
so that equal or below four is a baby is still true of course.
Now this is what I want to create and to do this, we have to apply some steps because the first thing
we can see right here is that we have a range and this range is from a text so power BI cannot
identify that as a number and as it cannot be identified as a number, well it's hard to extract the maximum
value or to work with the maximum values.
Now I don't want to change that age group column, so I want to keep it the way it is,
so the first thing we want to do is we want to create a duplicate of that column. To do this,
we can stay in the add column ribbon where we are already and we can now go to that duplicate column button right
here.
If you click that, then you can see that we created an exact copy of the first column,
if you click onto those two columns and look at the applied steps for instance, you can see that everything
is exactly the same,
well except for the name of course
but I think we can keep the name age group copy
in that case, this is fine.
So we now have that new column
and the first thing I see is that there are some symbols that I don't want to have in here,
those plus symbols for instance down here.
So the first thing we should do is we should replace that plus symbols with nothing because we just
want to delete them.
To do this, we simply select the whole column like this,
go back to the home ribbon right there and now go to replace values.
We learned that already,
right,
so you know how to do this.
If we click right here and now type plus and replace it with nothing and press OK
and now you see that the plus symbols are gone.
Now this is good but you remember, we want to extract the maximum values of each row right here and we don't
have that at the moment
but if you look at the last two characters in each row, you can see that for the majority of the rows,
if we could extract those last two characters, this would be a big step to our idea of having a list
with the maximum values of each row.
The only rows where this wouldn't work is the first row right here, the 10th row and row 18,
now before we take care of that, let's first extract the last two characters of each row.
To do this, we go back to the transform ribbon and now we find in the text column area, this extract function,
if we click onto that arrow, then you can define what exactly you want to extract from that column that
you just selected.
So you could extract a length,
so a defined length, the first characters, the last correctors or a range,
in our case we want to extract the last two characters as we already said.
So let's press that and now define how many characters counting from the back of each row in that column
we want to extract,
in our case, we want to have the last two characters.
So let's write that and press OK
and now we can see that we extracted the last two characters and that this is displayed in that column
right now. Now the first thing we can do is we can now rename that column to age group max
right, because now we really have the maximum values in here and press enter.
So this is it,
the only thing that I don't like at the moment is the 1st, the 10th and the 18th column as we already
said.
Now let's first change column 1 and column 10 because we don't want to have that minor symbol in front
of the maximum values. So we can simply again select a whole column, go to home, go to replace values and
replace the minus with nothing and press OK,
like this.
Now the last thing we have to change is column 18 because 00, that's not really good
so we have to replace 00 with 100.
So let's press on 00, go to replace values
and as you can see 00 is already selected
so we can simply now define that it should be replaced with 100 and press OK
and now we got our column with the maximum values of each age group.
The only thing we should do right now is we should also format that column as a whole number
and we also know how this works,
so we can simply press onto that symbol right here and format it as whole number, like this.
Now this is really good right,
so the only thing that's missing now is that condition,
right
because you want to define, well you have different maximum values
but what should be displayed in the new column, that category column?
Let's find out how we can do this in the next video.